docs(prompts): concepts (#283)
langchain-ai/langsmith-docs: versioned_docs/version-2.0/concepts/prompts/prompts.mdx

# Prompts

Writing good prompts is key to getting the best performance out of your applications. LangSmith provides ways to create, test, and manage prompts.

## Prompt types

We support three types of prompt templates:

1. **StringPromptTemplate**
2. **ChatPromptTemplate**
3. **StructuredPromptTemplate**

For detailed information about these templates, please refer to the [LangChain documentation](https://python.langchain.com/v0.2/docs/concepts/#prompt-templates). In LangSmith, you can create prompts using the Playground. From the prompt view in the Playground, you can select either "Chat Prompt" or "Instructional Prompt" to get started.

> #### Chat Prompt

Reviewer: nit: Chat-style prompts

> Chat prompts are used for conversational models and correspond to `ChatPromptTemplate`. You can have multiple messages in a chat prompt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chat prompts are used for chat-style models that accept a list of messages as an input and respond with an assistant message. A chat-style prompt are represented in LangSmith as a `ChatPromptTemplate`, which can contain multiple messages, each with prompt variables.
```

You can also add an output schema to your chat prompt, which defines the expected output of your model. Adding an output schema makes your chat prompt into a `StructuredPromptTemplate`.

> #### Instructional Prompt

Reviewer: nit: instruct-style prompts

> Instructional prompts are `StringPromptTemplate` prompts that generate a single string input for your model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An instruct-style prompts is represented as a `StringPromptTemplate` that gets formatted to a single string input for your model.
```

## Template formats

We support two types of template formats: `f-string` and `mustache`. You can switch between these formats when editing prompts in the Playground.

### F-string

F-strings are a Python-specific string formatting method that allows you to embed expressions inside string literals, using curly braces `{}`.
Here's an example of an f-string template:

```python
Hello, {name}!
```

> ### Mustache

Reviewer: would be nice to link to external mustache reference docs

Here's an example of a mustache template:

```json
Hello, {{name}}!
```

Mustache is more robust than f-strings since it supports more complex logic. You can use conditionals, loops, and access nested keys in mustache templates.

#### Conditional

```json
Hello, {{#name}}{{name}}{{/name}}{{^name}}world{{/name}}!
```

The template will output "Hello, Bob!" if "Bob" is provided as the `name` variable, and "Hello, world!" if the `name` variable is not provided.

#### Loop

```json
{{#names}}{{name}}{{/names}}
```

input:

```json
{
  "names": [{ "name": "Alice" }, { "name": "Bob" }, { "name": "Charlie" }]
}
```

output: "AliceBobCharlie"

#### Loop with nesting

```json
{{#people}}{{name}} is {{age}} years old. {{/people}}
```

input:

```json
{
  "people": [
    { "name": "Alice", "age": 30 },
    { "name": "Bob", "age": 25 },
    { "name": "Charlie", "age": 35 }
  ]
}
```

output: "Alice is 30 years old. Bob is 25 years old. Charlie is 35 years old."

#### Dot notation

```json
{{person.name}} is {{person.age}} years old.
```

input:

```json
{
  "person": {
    "name": "Alice",
    "age": 30
  }
}
```

output: "Alice is 30 years old."

> :::note Note

Reviewer: ignore my previous comment and just move this up
